# Exercise C01-GIT04

1. Let's suppose you remotely pushed your my_env.txt file. A colleague asks you to remove this information from Git. What's your colleague worried about?

    ***This file exposes sensitive information (password) which will be visible for anyone with access to the repository.***

2. If you modify the file in your workspace, then push it, will it be enough? (It's not). Why?

    ***Nope, someone can check the `git log` and checkout the file version with the sensitive data and read its contents.***

3. If you delete the file and push it, then create a new one with the rest of the information, is it enough? (It's not). Why?

    ***Nope, you delete the file in the recent commit but not from the history. Someone can check the `git log` and checkout the file's commit and read its contents.***

4. How to fix this? How do you remove something from Git history?

    ***We need to execute the same procedures as when we need to remove a big file form the git history,
    we need to rewrite it and push the new history to the remote repository.
    We can use either `BFG Repo-Cleaner` or `git filter-branch` to completely remove the file from git history.***

5. Which commands would you use? What are the consequences for other developers?

    ***Using the builtin Git command `git filter-branch`, execute the following commands:***

    ```bash
    # rewrite the git history removing the file
    $ git filter-branch --force --index-filter \
      "git rm --cached --ignore-unmatch my_env.txt" \
      --prune-empty --tag-name-filter cat -- --all

    # force-push the local changes to overwrite the remote repository
    $ git push origin --force --all

    # clean up the local repository to remove any reference of the file
    # and force the garbage collector to run.
    $ git for-each-ref --format="delete %(refname)" refs/original | git update-ref --stdin
    $ git reflog expire --expire=now --all
    $ git gc --prune=now
    ```

    > The other users must `rebase` any branches they created of the old repository history. They must **NOT** use **`merge`** since that it will reintroduce some or all of the previous history which would bring the file back.

    More details on [Github Docs](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/removing-sensitive-data-from-a-repository)