1. Did you notice any difference in the size of the repo before and after adding the big file?
Yes. The repo size was more than what I expected after I added the big file (eg increase in size was more than the size of the file i added). 

2. What is the reason for this problem?
A copy of the file was stored on the history on the folder /.git/objects with the 'git add file.txt; git commit -m "Add big file"' command

3. How do you remove something from Git history after it is pushed to the remote repository? Which commands would you use? 
git filter-branch --index-filter "git rm -rf --cached --ignore-unmatch path_to_file" HEAD
Source :https://myopswork.com/how-remove-files-completely-from-git-repository-history-47ed3e0c4c35
Translated into plain English the command is saying (from what i understand):
In git (git), Rewrite revision history (filter-branch) and rewrite the index (--index-filter). Remove file from working directory (RM), remove file from staging area (--cached), exit gracefully if the file does not exist (--ignore-unmatch). The file (-f not -rf) we are talking about is is XXX (path_to_file). Do this for the last commit /current branch (HEAD).

4. What are the consequences of the previous action?
you cannot reverse the removal. you should probably make a back up of the repo somewhere.
from what i have read filter-branch is a poor choice especially if other users with their own clones are involved. for a singular local instance it is probably ok?
filter-branch can cause multiple copies of each commit, some with removed information, others without it.
filter-repo might be better for public repos.
<!-- Don't change anything below this point-->
<!-- Before commiting, remove both commented lines--> 
***
Answer for exercise [c01-git03](https://github.com/devopsacademyau/academy/blob/23cc1dfa31e85651e3cdc1b0ef38da21518841ba/classes/01class/exercises/c01-git03/README.md)
