# Exercise C01-GIT03

1. Did you notice any difference in the size of the repo before and after adding the big file?

> Yes, before the size of the repo was roughly 168K and after adding the file it went to 201MB.
> 100MB from the file.txt at the base folder and the other 100MB from the file.txt inside the `.git` folder.


2. What is the reason for this problem?

> Git keeps a copy of all files inside the .git folder for history allowing us to do some operations without actually lost the file.
> For instance, we can quickly checkout branches which might have different files (big or small) and the files from other branches will be intact inside the `.git` folder.

3. How do you remove something from Git history? Which commands would you use? What are the consequences?

> In order to fix that, we need to rewrite the Git history and two tools can be used to do the dirty work.
> The first and the fattest way it to use the [BFG Repo-Cleaner](http://rtyley.github.io/bfg-repo-cleaner/). The second way it to use the command `git filter-branch`.
> Both commands will track down the file and rewrite the Git history updating commits, tags and branches.
> However, those commands **will NOT** delete the file. It will be necessary to prune the current reflog and force the Git's Garbage Collector to run.
> Below the commands to do that:

```bash
 git reflog expire --expire=now --all && git gc --prune=now --aggressive
```

> One of the consequences of rewriting the git history is that the commits' SHA will need to be modified.
> Hence, it will affect open pull requests and local repositories in other machines. Also, the file cannot be recovered, that would not be a problem if the file were a mistake.

Please refer to [Github Docs](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/removing-sensitive-data-from-a-repository) for the complete list of commands to be executed.
